In March 2025, the programming world
went mad with a disease called the vibe
coding mind virus. For those who have
not yet been infected, vibe coding is a
term coined by exopi wizard Andrey where
you fully give into the vibes, embrace
exponentials, and forget that the code
even exists. This term has taken the
world by storm. And virtually every code
influencer on the internet right now is
following in the footsteps of Apex indie
hacker Peter Levelvels, who recently
viodated a crappy real-time flight
simulator MMO with JavaScript. Then he
leveraged his large Twitter following to
sell in-game advertisements and make a
ton of money. You got to respect the
pure tech bro genius here. But the
problem is that now everybody is vibe
coding crappy games and flooding the
internet with more and more AI generated
sloth. But according to the CEO of
Anthropic, this is the way. He recently
stated that in just 12 months, virtually
all code will be written by AI. And in
today's video, we'll look at real life
examples of when vibe coding goes wrong
and check out some awesome tools and
techniques to help you vibe properly. It
is March 26, 2025, and you're watching
the code report. The first thing you
need to realize is that coding and
programming are not the same. Coding is
the skill of translating logic into
instructions for a computer by writing
code. An elite coder might be able to
bang out a 100 words per minute of
perfect CC code in Vim purely from
memorized syntax. But large language
models are making this skill obsolete.
An 8-year-old printer can now write code
faster than a skilled professional with
20 years of experience. But programming
is a far broader skill that's hard to
describe. It's both an art and a science
that requires ingenuity, creativity, and
good instincts gained through
experience. The best programmers often
spend more time removing code than
writing code. And if you don't
understand the code you're vibing out
like a true programmer, you won't get
very far. Like this poor guy on the
internet vibe coded a SAS product and
even had paying customers, which is a
huge achievement for an indie hacker.
Upon learning about his success, the
trolls of the internet came out and
hacked it to pieces. Quote, "Random
thing are happening. Maxed out usage on
API keys. people bypassing the
subscription, creating random on
DB. This has taken me longer than usual
to figure out. Ultimately, the app was
taken down permanently, and the guy had
to beg for his job back at Popeyes.
Sadly, there are many such cases, but
when done properly, vibe coding can
work. And I think it's only a matter of
time before we see a billion-dollar
business that runs entirely on Vibes,
which will likely be built with tools
like Vzero or Bolt along with AI idees
like Cursor and Windserve. But if you
choose to vibe max your code with tools
like these, I would highly recommend
following these three rules. Rule number
one, choose a popular simple tech stack
as something like React, Express,
Tailwind, Reddus, and Dino should be
ideal for webdev. The reality is that
these LLMs are best at solving problems
that people have already solved on
places like GitHub, Stack Overflow, etc.
And that means even though you hate
React, trying to use that fancy new
JavaScript framework is going to kill
your vibes. Actually, screw that. My
preferred choice is spelt. But I've
actually been getting really good vibe
coding results with Vue.js and Nux. So
this rule is breakable. Rule number two
though is not breakable and that is to
get good at git. When AI takes control
of your code, that means it also has the
power to delete your working code. And
when that happens, it's almost
impossible to prompt it back into
existence. However, if you're
disciplined and use version control, you
would have stash that good working code
somewhere safe. In fact, you can use
tools like Claude Code to vibe commit
your code for you or check out my
fullgate course if you want to learn it
by hand. But the most important rule is
rule number three. Ask not what your AI
can do for you, but what can you do for
your AI? You're not a coder anymore.
You're a product manager. And if you
want to be a good one, you need to break
down complex requirements into small
steps. They should be highly specific
and also provide the proper context to
solve the problem, like recent
documentation and images for UI design.
It might sound like a vibe killer, but
you don't want your LLM to get creative.
You want it to be as deterministic as
possible. As a developer who's highly
skilled in building failed side
projects, I've never felt more powerful.
That being said, I think relying on
vibes only is still a bad idea. Like the
levels Flight Simulator had all kinds of
issues, and it likely would have failed
miserably if it weren't for the
developers many years of experience as a
foundation. But now that you know how to
vibe code like a true professional, you
also need to know how to write like a
true professional. And the best tool to
get you there is Grammarly, the sponsor
of today's video. It's an AI writing
partner that helps professionals get
their work done faster while improving
quality. And unlike other AI tools, it
works directly with all the
communication apps you already use,
making it a much more seamless
experience. Like whenever there's a text
box, Grammarly automatically provides
one-click suggestions and rewrites it to
speed up your writing process without
the need to copy and paste from an AI
chatbot. It's perfect for polishing
emails, writing pull request
descriptions, or replying to
ridiculously long Slack messages from
your boss while making sure that you
always sound like yourself and not a
soulless robot. and its high-quality
suggestions do a great job of matching
the tone to the audience you're writing
for. Sign up and download Grammarly for
free today using the link below. This
has been the Code Report. Thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
one.